In this video, we're going to connect our project to Firebase so that we can use Firebase in our project
as we need.
Now before we do this, make sure you build or rebuild your project.
OK, that's important for Firebase.
And then once you've done that, go to tools and select Firebase.
This will bring up the assistant that will make connecting to Firebase really, really easy.
Otherwise, we need to create some manual JSON files, and that's a bit more complex.
So I'm going to go to cloud the fire store.
Click on, Get Started and then connect to Firebase.
OK, so let's go ahead and click on that build.
And we're just going to wait for the build to finish that should be quite quick.
All right, once that is done, let's go ahead and connect to Firebase, and that will bring up the
Firebase console.
So here you're going to either create a new project or select an existing project.
For me, I'm just going to select an existing project and connect to that.
OK, so let's go ahead and we're going to wait for that to connect to our Android Studio.
And then click on Connect.
So that will connect our current project to the Firebase project on the backend API.
If you are using a new project on Firebase, you need to enable the services that you are going to be
using.
OK, so for me, for example, I have my project here and I want to enable authentication.
So here I want to set up a signing method and I want to use email and password.
So go ahead and enable that and save so we don't need email link that just complicates our flow a little
bit.
You could implement this if you wanted to, but that just adds a bit more complexity.
So we're just going to leave email and password and click on Safe.
So that has enabled our email and password.
We also need to enable fire stored database.
OK, we're going to be using that in our code.
So go ahead and create a database and we're going to start in test mode since we are kind of building
our code and practicing.
We are using test mode.
If you want to publish your application, you need to set some rules regarding the database, so you
would need to do production mode.
But for us, we're just building our code for now.
So we're doing test mode here.
OK, so go ahead and click next and we're going to click Enable.
OK, so we're just waiting for the firestorm to finish processing, and then we'll move on to enabling
storage.
All right, so that's all done, so this is the database that we're going to be using.
And then we need to do the same thing for storage.
OK, so now for me, this is enabled.
There's nothing much to it.
You just click use or whatever the name of the button is and you should have the system set up already.
OK, for the rules, I think just the default is going to be fine.
We're still doing in what they call here playgrounds.
So basically testing and developing our app and not yet publishing it.
You know, obviously for publishing an application, there's a lot more complexity that goes behind
the scenes.
So security and things like that.
So if you do want to publish a large app, you do need to work with someone who is familiar or you need
to get more familiar with the rules around Firebase.
But for our purposes, we're just going to do the basic basic rules are fine.
That is going to allow us to read, read and write to our database, to our storage and to our authentication.
OK, now I can go back to my project and we can add the SDK to our project.
OK, I think this should already be there most of it, but let's go ahead and accept the changes.
We're going to sink and then wait for that to finish.
That just basically adds Google services to our project and allows us to use Firebase and Firestorm
in particular.
All right.
So that is mostly done.
I think it just needs to download a couple of things.
All right.
That is basically it.
Let's have a look here for storage.
It is connected.
Let's add cloud storage as well.
I think that should be already there.
OK, so let me just open up the app.
And yes, we have fire store.
We have storage and we have authentication.
So that should be fine.
We are done with this.
Now we're not going to follow the rest of the assistant steps simply because we will implement them
in a different way.
We're going to use hilt to implement them, not directly in our main activity, as the assistant says.
So don't worry about that.
We will do that later on in a better way.
OK, we're not going to use this reference that the assistant recommends.
All right.
That's it for Firebase.
I will see you in the next video.